• A description of your program and its features. This should include a complete description of the
strategy of your computer intelligence if you programmed a game, or the details of how your simulation
works if you chose a simulation.
    The ai starts off by playing fairly aggressive and tries to stockpile as many cards as it can at the begining so it can get more defuse cards and other late game cards. It also nopes most things that the opponents try to play in order to prevent them from gaining an advantage. As it gets towards the end it tries to use future acrds in such a way that it can avoid drawing exploding kittens and force its opponenets to instead. If the top cards are unknown, it is not necessarily, worth playing a card since you dont know if you will avoid drawing exploding kittens or make your opponent draw one. The main difference between the two ais is that the 2 and 3 player one is more aggresive since there are fewer exploding kittens in the deck.


• A brief description/justification of how it is constructed (class organization, how data are stored, etc.)
    For classes I have the deck of cards, the cards themselves, and the players. The deck is composed of two lists, on for the cards in the deck and the other for the discard pile. It also has one method which builds the deck, shuffles, and deals the cards. Players have their name, hand and whether they have exploded or not. It also has a method which explodes the player if they are unable to defuse an exploding kitten. Cards have the name of the card, a description, and a method that is what happens when the card is played.
    
    For functions I have search and numCheck which are used to make other functions work. Search takes in a list and a card to search for and returns its position if there and fals if it is not there. numCheck checks that the user inputted numbers so that the functions can run.
    
    For the game to actually run I have ATTACK, SHUFFLE, FAVOR, and FUTURE, which all take in the player, player list, and the deck. These all do what the cards themselves are supposed to in the game. There is then also COMBO which takes in the parameters before plus the counts of the combo cards and the total number of different combo cards. this relies on the combo card counter function which takes in a player and hand and returns all of the counts. There is also nopeCheck which allows nopes to be played and takes in player, player list, and the deck. Then thereis also a draw function which makes players draw cards when their turn ends and takes in player, player list, and the deck. It also explodes them if they can not defuse an exploding kitten. Take turn takes in player, player list, and the deck and lets players play cards and take a turn. Lastly there is a game function which starts a game with just a player list.
    
• A discussion of the current status of your program - what works and what doesn’t, etc.
    To the best of my knowledge, there should not be any bugs or errors and the game should play smoothly until the user either explodes or wins the game. I started by coding the ai to be designed to play against one player and it plays fairly aggresively, so it is not compeditive in a five player. However I did add Ai for a 5 player game that is compeditive but could definately be more challenging to play against. I also changed from my proposal and focused more on the AI aspectand did not add graphics. I think the game could definatley use graphics and a better interface. One example of what I would add is that all the cards have descriptions as part of their class but their is no way for a player access that during their turn which might be helpful for new players. I also think I probably could have made the nope function more specific and also have it say who the player is targeting with their card. I also think that the code could probably be more effiecient  in certain areas and at times it does get a little repeditive.  
    
    One minor play aspect from the game that is missing is that nopes can be noped, but I was unable to find away to implement that into the game because it hits infinite recursion. However nopes do work for every other scenario, even combos.   
    
• Instructions for running your program.
    Running main will take you to the beginning and ask how many players you would like to play with. From there the game will begin and you will play cards by entering strings and input an integer to target a player or resinert the exploding kitten back into the deck. to play cards type out the cards name into the command prompt.
    
    As for the rules of the game, the ultimate goal of the game is to get your oppents to draw an exploding kitten card so they explode sand lose the game. At your disposal you have skip cards which will end your turn without drawing a card, attack card which will end your turn with out drawing and make the next opponent take 2 turns in a row, future cards which let you see the top three cards of the deck, shuffle cards shuffle the deck, nope cards cancel card that opponents try to play, and favor cards which let you steal a card from a player. Then there also 5 different combo cards which if you have a pair will let you steal a card from a player, 3 will let you see their hand and pick the card, and 5 different will let you take a card out of the discard. The links below are to the rules below and an animated demo just in case there are any remaining questions. You can play as many cards as you want in a turn.

https://www.fgbradleys.com/rules/rules2/ExplodingKittens-rules.pdf 
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kAkRKuv5Rts
